W-15921577 Java Module Files to edit (#2594)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: java/1.2/modules/ROOT/pages/configure-java-module-acb-edit.adoc

= Configure the Java Module Using Anypoint Code Builder

> Use the Java module in your Anypoint Code Builder project to define custom Java code. To use Anypoint Code Builder to configure the Java module, create a basic integration project in Anypoint Code Builder, add connectors and other components to your Mule application to process your business logic, and then configure the attributes for the Java Module. 

Reviewer: Put user value first? To define custom code...

== Before You Begin

Before creating an Anypoint Code Builder integration project, you must:

> * xref:anypoint-code-builder::start-acb.adoc[Set up and access the Anypoint Code Builder web or desktop IDE]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:anypoint-code-builder::start-acb.adoc[Set up and access the Anypoint Code Builder web or desktop IDE].
```

> * Have credentials to access Anypoint Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Have credentials to access Anypoint Platform.
```

* Ensure that the Extension Pack for Java (from Microsoft) is installed in Visual Studio Code.

[[creating-new-integration-project]]
== Creating a New Integration Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-create-integration-project"]

> When you create a new Anypoint Code Builder project, `src/main/java` and `/src/test/java` folders are created in the project. For existing projects, you can manually create these folders. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a new integration project, Anypoint Code Builder creates the `src/main/java` and `/src/test/java` folders in the project. For existing projects, you can manually create these folders. 
```

== Configuring the Component Attributes

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-configure-attributes"]

[[configure-trigger]]
== Configure a Trigger for the Flow
A trigger (source) starts the flow when specified conditions are met. If a connector has its own associated sources, you can use a connector-specific trigger to initiate the flow. Each connector trigger has a unique configuration.

You can configure the following sources for this connector:

include::connectors::partial$t-studio-partial.adoc[tags=listener-scheduler-descriptions]

[[configuring-new]]
=== Configuring the New Operation

Create a new class instance by using the *New* operation of the Java module. The identifier of a constructor includes the class and constructor names, and the constructor has a full description of its signature, including the types of each parameter.

For example, if you invoke the constructor `Me(String name, int age)`, which belongs to the `org.bar.Me` class, then the identifier of the method is `Me(String,int)`.

To configure the attributes for *New* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *New* component on the canvas.

> . In the *General* tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* tab:
```

Reviewer: I don't see this specifically called out in the SR, but it is used in examples.

> .. In *Class*, search and select the Java class that contains the method to use. 

Reviewer: Is Class a section?

Author: No, it's an input box

+
You can search for all the available Java classes for your project, including classes you create and native Java classes.  

> .. In *Constructor*, search and select the constructor to use. 

Reviewer: Same q as line 49.

Author: Input box

+

> NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.

Reviewer: This field? 

https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22it,%22%22this,%22%22these%22

. Select the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes: 
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required
| Target variable | Name of the variable to assign the class instance to. | No
| Target value | Expression that evaluates the operation's output. The expression outcome is stored in the target variable. | No

> | Error Mappings a| Creates custom error types that you map to Mule error types. The mappings can help you further differentiate and group errors in your app. This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:mule-runtime::mule-error-concept.adoc[]. | No

Reviewer: Parallelism? See also line 14. If these are identical, can you use a partial?

Reviewer: Oh, maybe you defined the partials but didn't use them?

|===
. Select the *Input/Output* tab to filter and view input and output variables stored in DataWeave.

After you add your class instance, <<configuring-invoke,configure the *Invoke* operation>>.

[[configuring-invoke]]
=== Configuring the Invoke Operation

The *Invoke* operation invokes methods with the provided arguments using a specified class instance. The identifier of the method to invoke includes the class and method names.

To configure the attributes for *Invoke* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *Invoke* component on the canvas.

> . In the *General* tab:

Reviewer: On

.. Select the class *Instance* for invoking the method.
+

> This is the target variable assigned to the *New* operation.

Reviewer: This class?

> .. In *Class*, select the Java class that contains the method to use. 

Reviewer: Different from line 49?
If not, create and use partials for these duplicated steps?

+
You can search for all the available Java classes for your project, including classes you create and native Java classes.  

> .. In *Method*, search and select the method to use. 

Reviewer: (See previous comments on the same text.)

+

> NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.

Reviewer: this field?

include::connectors::partial$acb-java-module-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

[[configuring-invoke-static]]
=== Configuring the Invoke Static Operation

Invoke static methods with the arguments you provide. 

To configure the attributes for *Invoke Static* in the Anypoint Code Builder UI:

. Click the *Invoke Static* component on the canvas.

> . In the *General* tab:

Reviewer: On

> .. In *Class*, select the Java class that contains the method to use. 

Reviewer: make this a partial?

+
You can search for all the available Java classes for your project, including classes you create and native Java classes.  
.. In *Method*, search and select the method to use. 
+
Only the static methods from the class are displayed.
+

> NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.

Reviewer: this field?

include::connectors::partial$acb-java-module-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

=== Configuring the Validate Type Operation

> Use this operation to validate that the instance is an `instanceof` the expected class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Valid Type operation to validate that the instance is an `instanceof` the expected class:
```

Reviewer: In general, we don't use elements this way.
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-UIelements

Suggest 

If you need to keep it, suggest something like:
Use this operation to validate that the instance is an instance of (`instanceof`) the expected class.

. Click the *Validate type* component on the canvas.

> . In the *General* tab:

Reviewer: On. I'll stop marking these, yah?

.. Select the *Class* the instance belongs to.
.. Enter the name of the class *Instance* to validate.
.. Select *Accept subtypes* to accept subtypes of a class. 
+

> Unselect this option if the class instance has to be of the exact same class. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deselect this option if the class instance must be of the same class. 
```

== Example

[[creating-java-class]]
=== Creating a Java Class

Create Java classes containing methods to use in your application flows. The classes you create in your project are not available to other projects in your Anypoint Code Builder workspace.

. In your Anypoint Code Builder project, create a new Java package called `com.me` under `src/main/java`.
. Create a new Java class called `TaxCalculator.java`, and add the implementation, for example:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.me;

public class TaxCalculator {

    private Double percentBaseTax = 7.0;

    public Double calculateTax(Double price, Integer percentAdditionalTax) {
        return price * (this.percentBaseTax + percentAdditionalTax) / 100;
    }

    public Boolean isTaxFree(Double price) {
        if (price < 10) {
            return true;
        }
        return false;
    }
}
---- 
+

> In this example code, there are two methods:

Reviewer: You could use code callouts for this instead (and avoid the "there are" construction):
`[calloutlist]`

See https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Formatting+with+Asciidoc#FormattingwithAsciidoc-AddCalloutstoCodeBlocks

* `calculateTax`, which receives the `price` and `percentAdditionalTax` parameters.
* `isTaxFree`, which receives the `price` parameter.

=== Configure an HTTP Trigger

. Click the *Listener* component on the canvas UI.

> . (Optional) Click the edit icon to change the name of the *Listener* component. 

Reviewer: Kim's guidance says to avoid.
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-optionalsteps

> . If you created a configuration file for the connector, select it, or add the HTTP configuration to the XML, outside of the flow, for example:

Reviewer: Hard to parse. Maybe something can go in parentheses?

+ 
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:java="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java/current/mule-java.xsd">
  <http:listener-config name="HTTP_listener_config">
    <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
  </http:listener-config>
  <flow name="name1">
    <http:listener path="/calculatePath" config-ref="HTTP_listener_config" doc:name="Listener" doc:id="511e4743-a5ed-4e74-8174-ead32ff575ea" allowedMethods="POST" />
  </flow>
</mule>
----

> . In the *General* tab, in the *Path* field: `/calculateTax`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *General* tab, enter `/calculateTax` in the *Path* field.
```

. In the *Advanced* tab, set the *Allowed methods* to `POST`.

=== Create a New Class Instance

> Since the method used in this example is non-static, you must create a new class instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the method used in this example is non-static, you must create a new class instance:
```

Reviewer: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-synonymsandwordswithmultiplemeanings

. Click the *New* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:
.. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use, in this case, `com.me.TaxCalculator`.
.. Select the *Method* to use: `TaxCalculator()`.
+

> NOTE: If this is blank, click the refresh icon to populate it.

Reviewer: this field?

  http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java/current/mule-java.xsd
  http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
  http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">

  <http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
    <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
  </http:listener-config>

  <flow name="java1">
    <http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/calculateTax" allowedMethods="POST"/>
    <java:new class="com.me.TaxCalculator" constructor="TaxCalculator()" target="taxCalculator" />
  </flow>
</mule>
----

=== Add an Invoke Operation

To call your method, add an *Invoke* operation:

. Click the *Invoke* component on the canvas.
. In the *General* tab:
.. Enter `#[vars.taxCalculator]` as the class *Instance* for invoking the method.

> .. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use, in this case ,`com.me.TaxCalculator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the *Class* that contains the method to use, in this case, `com.me.TaxCalculator`.
```

.. Select the *Method* to use: `calculateTax(java.lang.Double,java.lang.Integer)`.
+

> The list of methods shown are standard non-static Java methods in addition to the methods you created. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The methods shown are the standard non-static Java methods and the methods you created. 
```

  http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/java/current/mule-java.xsd
  http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
  http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">

  <http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
    <http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
  </http:listener-config>

  <flow name="java1">
    <http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/calculateTax" allowedMethods="POST"/>
    <java:new class="com.me.TaxCalculator" constructor="TaxCalculator()" target="taxCalculator" />

    <java:invoke instance="#[vars.taxCalculator]" class="com.me.TaxCalculator" method="calculateTax(Double, Integer)" target="taxResult">
      <java:args>#[{
        arg0: payload.price,
        arg1: payload.percentAdditionalTax
      }]</java:args>
    </java:invoke>
  </flow>
</mule>
----

=== Add the Set Payload Transformer

> The Set Payload (set-payload) component lets you update the payload of the message. The payload can be a literal string or a DataWeave expression.

Reviewer: font for "set-payload"?

Reviewer: User value first? To update the payload...

. In the canvas UI, click the image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-plus.png["",15,15] (*Add component*) icon.
. In the *Add Component* panel, search for `Set Payload` and select it. 
. Click the *Set Payload* component. 

> . In the *General* tab enter `#[vars.taxResult as String]` for the *Value*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* tab, enter `#[vars.taxResult as String]` for the *Value*.
```
